OSDOCS-8216: embed microshift in rpm-ostree commit (#66490)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/microshift-embed-microshift-image-offline-deploy.adoc

.. List the contents of the `/usr/share/microshift/release` directory to verify the presence of the release information files by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls /usr/share/microshift/release
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----
release-x86_64.json
----
+
If you installed the `microshift-release-info` RPM, you can proceed to step 4.

. If you did not complete step 2, download and unpack the `microshift-release-info` RPM without installing it:

.. Download the RPM package by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo dnf download microshift-release-info-<release_version>
----
Replace ,`<release_version>` with the numerical value of the release you are deploying, using the entire version number, such as `4.14.0`.
+
.Example rpm
[source,terminal]
----
microshift-release-info-4.14.0.*.el9.noarch.rpm <1>
----
<1> The `*` represents the date and commit ID. Your output should contain both, for example `-202311101230.p0.g7dc6a00.assembly.4.14.0`.

.. Unpack the RPM package without installing it by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ rpm2cpio <my_microshift_release_info_4.14.0.*.el9.noarch.rpm> | cpio -idmv <1>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ rpm2cpio <my_microshift_release_info>.rpm | cpio -idmv <1>
```

./usr/share/microshift/release/release-aarch64.json
./usr/share/microshift/release/release-x86_64.json
----

> <1> Replace `<my_microshift_release_info_4.14.0.*.el9.noarch.rpm>` with the name of the RPM package from the previous step.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<1> Replace `<my_microshift_release_info>.rpm` with the name of the RPM package from the previous step.
```

<1> Replace `<my_microshift_release_info>` with the name of the RPM package from the previous step.

. Generate and embed the container image references to your blueprint TOML file using the release information for your architecture, by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----

> $ jq -r '.images | .[] | ("[[containers]]\nsource = \"" + . + "\"\n")' release-$(uname -m).json >> <my_blueprint.toml>

Reviewer 2: The instructions are not very clear what directory I should run this command from.  I am thinking I should be in `/usr/share/microshift/release`

Reviewer: The current directory is where the input file is. Let's split this command into 3 parts to make it more explicit?
```
$ RELEASE_FILE=/path/to/your/release-$(uname -m).json
$ BLUEPRINT_FILE=/path/to/your/blueprint.toml
$  jq -r '.images | .[] | ("[[containers]]\nsource = \"" + . + "\"\n")' "${RELEASE_FILE}" >> "${BLUEPRINT_FILE}"
```

----
Replace `<my_blueprint.toml>` with the name of the blueprint file that you are modifying.
+

> .Example resulting `<my_blueprint.toml>` fragment showing container references

Reviewer: jq command appends the `[[container]]` sections to the existing blueprint. 
It's not the whole thing. We should make it more explicit - there are more than 10 containers...

> . Pin the version of the {microshift-short} RPMs in the blueprint to the version matching your container images. See the following  example section to add to a TOML:

Reviewer: Starting from here and until the end, the section need to be rewritten. 
Note that the command on line 79 already appends the list of container images to the blueprint. So, this explanatrion makes an impression that more changes need to be made.

> .Example `<my_blueprint.toml>` for a single container

Reviewer: The example is for 2 containers.

----
Replace `<release_version>` with the numerical value of the release you are deploying, using the entire version number, such as `4.14.0`.
+
.Example rpm
[source,terminal]
----
microshift-release-info-4.14.0.*.el9.noarch.rpm <1>
----
<1> The `*` represents the date and commit ID. Your output should contain both, for example `-202311101230.p0.g7dc6a00.assembly.4.14.0`.

.. Unpack the RPM package without installing it by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ rpm2cpio <my_microshift_release_info> | cpio -idmv <1>
./usr/share/microshift/release/release-aarch64.json
./usr/share/microshift/release/release-x86_64.json
----
<1> Replace `<my_microshift_release_info>` with the name of the RPM package from the previous step.

. Generate the section and embed the container images to your blueprint TOML file using the release information for your architecture, by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ jq -r '.images | .[] | ("[[containers]]\nsource = \"" + . + "\"\n")' release-$(uname -m).json >> <my_blueprint.toml>
----
Replace `<my_blueprint.toml>` with the name of the blueprint file that you are modifying.

> . Optional: You can manually pin the version of the {microshift-short} RPMs in the blueprint to the version matching your container images. See the following example section to add to a TOML:

Reviewer: This is an example of the blueprint file as the result of the previous command.
Please, make sure to note that it's a fragment and not the full list.

+
.Example `<my_blueprint.toml>` for two containers
[source,terminal]
----
name = "microshift-offline"

description = ""
version = "0.0.1"
modules = []
groups = []

[[packages]]
name = "microshift"
version = "4.14.0"

[[containers]]
source = "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:82cfef91557f9a70cff5a90accba45841a37524e9b93f98a97b20f6b2b69e5db"

[[containers]]
source = "quay.io/openshift-release-dev/ocp-v4.0-art-dev@sha256:82cfef91557f9a70cff5a90accba45841a37524e9b93f98a97b20f6b2b69e5db"
----

. Optional: You can manually embed the container image by adding it to the Image Builder blueprint using the following example:
+
.Example section for manually embedding container image to Image Builder
[source,terminal]
----
[[containers]]
source = "<my_image_pullspec_with_tag_or_digest>"
----

> Replace <my_image_pullspec_with_tag_or_digest> with the exact list of container image references used by the {microshift-short} version you are deploying.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Replace <my_image_pullspec_with_tag_or_digest> with the exact reference to a container image used by the {microshift-short} version you are deploying.
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift_running_applications/embed-microshift-offline-deploy.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-embed-microshift-image-offline-deployment_{context}"]
= Embedding {microshift-short} containers for offline deployments

You can use Image Builder to create `rpm-ostree` system images with embedded {microshift-short} container images. To embed container images, you must add the image references to your Image Builder blueprint.

.Prerequisites

* You have root-user access to your build host.
* Your build host meets the Image Builder system requirements.
* You have installed and set up Image Builder and the composer-cli tool.
* You have created a {op-system-ostree} image blueprint.

> * You have installed jq.

Author: jq is not back-ticked. 
https://jqlang.github.io/jq/
In the RHEL docs, composer-cli is unevenly back-ticked.

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// microshift_running_applications/embed-microshift-offline-deploy.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="microshift-embed-microshift-image-offline-deployment_{context}"]
= Embedding {microshift-short} containers for offline deployments

You can use Image Builder to create `rpm-ostree` system images with embedded {microshift-short} container images. To embed container images, you must add the image references to your Image Builder blueprint.

.Prerequisites

* You have root-user access to your build host.
* Your build host meets the Image Builder system requirements.
* You have installed and set up Image Builder and the `composer-cli` tool.
* You have created a {op-system-ostree} image blueprint.

> * You have created an `/etc/osbuild-worker/osbuild-worker.toml` configuration file if does not exist.

Reviewer: This prerequisite is not necessary in this section

* You have installed jq.

//https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#commands-with-jq
//need to replace jq in this procedure if possible

.Procedure

. Get the exact list of container image references used by the {microshift-short} version you are deploying by either
installing the `microshift-release-info` RPM package or by downloading and unpacking the RPM.

.. Install the `microshift-release-info` RPM package for the version you want to embed to get the exact list of container image references used by the {microshift-short} version you are deploying by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ sudo dnf install -y microshift-release-info-<release_version>
----
Replace ,`<release_version>` with the numerical value of the release you are deploying, using the entire version number, such as `4.14.0`.

.. List the contents of the `microshift/release` directory to verify the download of the release information file by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ ls /usr/share/microshift/release
----
+
.Example output
[source,terminal]
----

> release-x86_64.json

Reviewer: This needs to be fixed, I think
